# Biological-File-Format

This repo contains scripts to extract specific features and informations from various bioinformatics file formats.

## StatsFasta.py : 
Code reports the number of sequences found and the total number of residues (bases) that make them up the FASTA or FASTQ files along with their gzipped variants. 

This can be run as: 

`StatsFasta.py  --file = “~/path_to_fasta_file/sample.fa --output= <Name_of_outputfile>`
---
## minimap_evaluation.py :
for file generated after minimap evaluation. Divide big data sample into specified size and generate multiple small files. Extract sequence and calculate length of sequences and append into DataFrame. 

`python minimap_evaluation.py`
--- 
## reverseComplement.py :
Reverse complements an oligonucleotide sequence entered by user. The program prompts the user to enter another sequence complement until the user enters a sequence with at least one character that is invalid
How to run: 
`python revereComplement.py`
--- 
## PercentIdentSAM.py
This code reports the percent identity for each aligning read to reference from SAM file and generates a CSV file with columns:
Column1: ‘Name’ : Query template name
Column2: ‘Position’ : ‘1-based leftmost mapping position’
Column3: ‘PercentIdentity’: Identity of the read to reference in percentage

Run it as : 

`PercentIdentSAM.py -i = “Inputfile.sam” -o = “Outputfile.csv”`
---
## export_gff3_feature.py
Input file should be in GFF3 file format. Program reads the path to a GFF3 file, finds any gene (column 3) which has an ID=YAR003W (column 9). When it finds this, it uses the coordinates for that feature (columns 4, 5 and 7) and the FASTA sequence at the end of the document to return its FASTA sequence.
Run it as: 

`export_gff3_feature.py  --source_gff=/path/to/some.gff3  --type=gene --attribute=ID  --value=YAR003W`
---
## filter_for_classcode.py
This code inputs tracking file (generated by gffcompare) and transcript classification code (class code) and filter for reads with the specified transcript classification code writing it in an output file. User can filter with any class code specified in the GffCompare Utility.
Run it as:

`filter_for_classcode.py --file= “some.tracking”  --class_code= “=”  --output= “output.txt”`
---
## StatsFaFq.py
This code reports the number of sequences found and the total number of residues (bases) that make them up the FASTA or FASTQ files along with their gzipped variants.
Run it as : 

`StatsFaFq.py -i = “Inputfile.fasta” or “Inputfile.fastq” or “Inputfile.fasta.gz” or “Inputfile.fastq.gz”`
---

## fragmentrecruitplot.py
Inputs the above file to generate Fragment Recruitment plot with percent identity on Y-axis and position in genome of X-axis.
Run it : 

`python fragmentrecruitplot.py`
